# mt. baker

Nearly one year later, under the dazzling blue streak of a fine summer sky, I stare out from a bluff overlooking the expanse of Vancouver bay. The water below shimmers a crisp blue, and the cargo ships, maybe twenty in total, sit stagnant on its surface, parked up as if on a flat-top of oily concrete. Overhead, the clouds hang motionless in the sky, here and there, like fluffy little reflections of the boats below. The entire scene reminds me of a game of battleships, a game in which each player has inadvertently mirrored the other, one with cold metallic intent, the other with a soft shapeless innocence. I stand on that bluff and stare out at the sparkling day, stoned out of my mind, thinking expansive silly thoughts, letting my eyes drift aimlessly over the landscape –

Hag gives me a sharp nudge, “Baker:” he whispers, nodding off into the distance to the East. and fuck. There it is, again, that mammoth mountain range, suspended miraculously as a white peak above a thin blue band of sky; floating like a mirage, a thousand miles away, but towering like an inhuman illusion over the land, like it owns it, like it owns us.

I fixate on it, and suddenly I understand something very cosmic:

“Imagine-“, I whisper to Hag, “Imagine seeing that great mass jutting out so unbelievably in the distance so many thousand years ago… What would you think – what else could you think but, “Oh great seismic Lord, we give unto thee…” – that form, that pinnacle, it is everything summed up in its pointy white peak; it is all we can do to marvel and project upon it all of our wonder, all of our hope, our excitement, our passion for life – to live! In the presence of such momentous time and effort! beyond our comprehension – beyond our lifetime ability – it is all we can do to stare and be humbled by the possibilities of life, and our simple existence…”

The view of that mountain, of Baker, held me in a hopeful reverie for a long time. It drew my eyes continually, involuntarily, as I tried to pull them back over the bay; and it held my mind (as a lingering blank impression) for a long time even after we’d left, and the sun had set, and I had closed my eyes to sleep – I was a hopeless romantic, a fool, a bumbling airy headed idiot who found promise in the slightest gesture, in the obscurest image – and the image of that mountain, against the backdrop of that endless blue sky, it gave me hope. Hope that this time, that this beginning, could be it. My arrival, and final deliverance, to a place where I could be comfortable and happy, and who I wanted to be.
